The secret to going [music] viral every
single time on Instagram is by creating
share worthy content. The algorithm
changes literally every single day, but
for the last few years there has been
one top dog metric, one best form of
engagement that has been the best
indicator or predictor of a post
virality, and that is the number of
shares that the post gets. First thing
that the algorithm checks is your post
skip rate, or basically are people
actually hooked and going to be watching
the video. But then once it crosses that
threshold, the algorithm is looking at
two main indicators, the number of likes
and the number of shares. If your post
is getting a high amount of likes, then
your post will be pushed out to more of
your existing followers. If however,
your post is getting a lot more shares,
it's getting a high share rate, then
your post will be pushed out to more non
followers, and that's how you go viral.
In fact, according to a recent
InstaClubHub study, getting one
additional comment on your post will
equate to about 15 extra views. Getting
one save will equate to about 45 extra
views. Getting one like will equal about
75 extra views, and getting just one
share on your post on average will
equate to about 150 extra views, with
some people getting 300 to 450 extra
views per share. Shares are powerful and
they're what Instagram has optimized for
because Instagram has figured out that
friends and family and the average
Instagram user isn't posting things on
their feed anymore. So instead, they're
engaging with Instagram and they're
hooked on Instagram because of what's
going on in the direct messages. So if
you can create a post that is worthy of
being sent from one person to another
via direct message, via text message, or
via any other method, then Instagram
will reward you for doing so. And of
course, if your post is being sent from
one person to another, that recipient is
also going to become a viewer. And
probably best of all, and the last thing
I'll say before we get into the actual
tips and ideas for how you can create
share worthy viral content is that the
recipient, the person who's actually
getting the post sent to them, is
arguably the best possible viewer.
Because it's not a viewer that the
algorithm predicts would like your post,
it is a viewer who another viewer knows
would like your post. For example, I see
posts all the time where I'm like, "I'm
not that interested. That's not that
great." The algorithm is constantly
showing me things that I'm not all that
into. It's experimenting. But my wife
also sends me posts all day, and every
single post that my wife sends me gets
watched because it better, because she's
going to ask me if I watched or not, and
B, she knows me. She knows me better
than the algorithm, and she is going to
send me posts that are funnier, more
relatable, posts from people who I'm
more likely to follow and become
customers of than the algorithm ever
could. And so with that being said, I've
come up with an acronym to help you
remember what is share-worthy, and then
I'm going to give you some examples of
what share-worthy content actually looks
like in practice. And the acronym is
going to be very easy to remember
because it is literally share, s h a r
e, where the s stands for simple. The
more simple your posts can be, the more
share-worthy they will be also. And by
simple, I mean use simpler language, use
dumbed-down vocab, use phrases and
expressions that are easier to
understand. I oftentimes talk about the
drunk grandma rule, which is an old rule
for marketing that is if your marketing
wouldn't make sense to a drunk grandma,
then it's probably too complex.
Similarly, with your posts, if you're
trying to create a viral share-worthy
post, then your goal should be to make
it so simple and easy to understand that
even a grandma who's had a few glasses
of wine could understand what the post
was about. Here's an example of one of
my most simple posts that is super
share-worthy. Post everything three
times. If you posted a reel more than 60
days ago, post it again today. And 60
days from now, post it a third time.
Whether it went viral or it flopped, I
don't care. Most of your followers
probably didn't see it, and the few who
did don't remember. So stop making new
posts, stop looking for new ideas, and
stop spending hours editing. You've
already done the work, so post it again.
Thank you for coming to my brock talk.
That post was originally posted in
October of 2025 and when I did, I
received 2.5 million views and 60,000
shares. And then I posted again a few
months later and I got 30,000 shares and
1.5 million views. That means in total
combined across these two posts, this
reel has received about 4 million views
and about 100,000 shares. And I believe
it was so effective because that hook
was simple. It was three words and it
kind of caught you off guard. Those are
some things we're going to talk about a
little bit later. Speaking of, later is
right now. The hook. The H in the
acronym stands for hook. A share-worthy
post has to have a strong hook. Like I
talked about earlier, the first metric
that the algorithm checks is skip rate.
And obviously, people aren't going to
share your post if they aren't first
stopping to at least watch your post.
And you don't have to have them watch
the entire thing. If you do, that's
great. But they have to at least make it
through the first few seconds or at
least make it through the first one to
two slides of your carousel. Here's an
example of one of my most viral and most
share-worthy reels and I think it's due
in large part to the simple hook. More
cuts equals more engagement. We all know
that the human attention span is short,
but on Instagram, it's super short. So I
recommend having some sort of cut in
your video every two seconds. And I know
that might sound way too quick, but
that's actually the rule that almost
every TV show and movie sticks to. So by
simply recording a new clip, changing
your camera angle, or zooming in, you'll
be able to hold people's attention for
longer and increase your engagement.
Save this post if you just learned
something new and give this a try in
your next video. That post has also been
posted numerous times. The first time I
posted it, I believe it got like 2
million something views. The most recent
time that I posted it, it got 400,000
views and 20,000 shares. And the keys to
a good share-worthy hook is that
generally speaking, it's between 5 to 12
words long. It uses simple language. It
uses negative words if possible, words
like don't, stop, avoid, stay away from.
And it has a visual that's very easy to
see and thus easy to understand. The A
in the acronym stands for authentic.
Now, the secret to being authentic is to
just be yourself. No, that's horrible
advice. The secret to being authentic is
reducing the time between idea and
execution. Basically, the less time that
you can spend editing and refining and
perfecting and filtering and ChatGPTing
your post, the more authentic it will
be, usually. Authentic posts are also
the posts that say what that little
voice in your head is saying. That
little voice that no one else is
acknowledging, that you've been feeling,
that's been growing louder and louder,
that usually no one says out loud. When
you post the quiet part out loud, people
are like, "Yes, finally someone was
authentic enough to say it." And so,
even though they're not authentic or
vulnerable enough to say it themselves,
they'll take your post and they'll share
it because it's a way that they can kind
of say like, "Yeah, me too. I believe in
this. I want to amplify this message. I
think this way." Without having to be so
bold as to say it themselves. And here's
an example of one of my most authentic
posts. Friendly reminder that most of
what you're seeing on social media is
fake. This mic isn't plugged in. This is
a canvas, not a bookshelf. And I'm not
in a fancy office, I'm in a closet. That
post, every time I posted and every time
I updated it each year, received
millions of views. The most recent time
that I posted it, it received 2 million
views and over 40,000 shares. Back in
2016, when I started my first real
online business, I remember that my head
was filled with so many what ifs. What
if no one buys this? What if I'm an
impostor? What if there's no market?
What if I can't sell? What if, what if,
what if? What if this is all just a big
waste of time and I'm just banging my
head against the wall? But what I wish
someone told me back then is, just like
you can imagine all the negative what
ifs, there are just as many, if not
more, positive what ifs. What if this
works out? What if this is my
breakthrough? What if this is what sets
me financially free? And thanks to one
of today's sponsors, Shopify,
it's easier than ever to turn those
positive what-ifs into reality. Shopify
is the e-commerce platform behind
millions of businesses around the world,
and it now represents about 10% of the
entire e-commerce market in the US. From
some of the most famous and well-known
brands in the world like Gymshark to
solopreneurs, Shopify has you covered.
Shopify helps you get the word out about
your e-commerce business as if you had
an entire marketing team behind you. It
easily helps you create email and social
campaigns so that you can attract
customers wherever they're scrolling.
And if you ever get stuck, Shopify has
24/7 round-the-clock award-winning
customer support. That way, you can
tackle the important tasks from
inventory to payments to analytics all
in one place. No need to bookmark
multiple websites and sign up for
multiple tools. You can do it all in
Shopify. It makes your life easier and
it makes your business operations run
smoother. It's time to turn those
what-ifs into
with Shopify today. Sign up for your $1
per month trial at shopify.com/tribe.
Go to shopify.com/tribe.
That's s h o p i f dot com forward slash
t r i b e. The next letter in the
acronym is r for relatability. And
relatability comes from specificity.
What I mean by that is that oftentimes
as business owners and content creators,
we think that if we kind of water down
our experiences or we kind of make the
the memes or the titles or the nuances
of our posts more vague, that more
people will understand them. And what I
want you to understand here is that
there's a difference between simple and
easy to understand versus broad and
vague and watered down. I still want you
to use easy-to-understand language, but
I want you to describe specific
circumstances and specific occurrences
because the more specific you can be,
the more relatable your posts will be.
If you're like, I like vanilla ice
cream, everyone can kind of relate to
that because not many people hate it,
but also not many people love vanilla
ice cream. So, sure, a lot of people
could be like, "Yeah, I like it." But,
no one's going to feel that strongly. If
instead you're like, "I love vanilla
bean ice cream with cookie dough swirls
when you're on a summer day and it's 93°
at 6:00 p.m. and you're eating it in the
car with the windows down while blasting
Taylor Swift." That's something that's
super specific. And even though there
are very few people or probably less
people, right, who have experienced that
exact thing, they can relate to pieces
of it. They can relate to certain
moments of that, and that is what makes
the post more share-worthy. And here's
an example.
What? What is this?
What What are we doing?
What in God's name are we doing?
>> What? Our lives.
>> What What kind of lives are these? That
post received 11.6 million views and
over 200,000 shares the last time I
posted it. And then finally, the E in
the acronym does not stand for
educational content. Purely educational
content is rarely share-worthy. The only
time where educational content is
share-worthy is if it's really profound
education or education teaching
something that is like totally contrary
to the norm. We're going to talk more
about some of these things in just a
minute, but what the E actually stands
for is entertaining. So, educational
content can go viral and it can be
share-worthy, but if and only if it is
entertaining. And so, the example that
I'm about to play for you is both. It is
educational, and there is plenty that
you can learn from it, but because of
its format, specifically what I call my
triplets format, it is entertaining as
well. And this post received over
800,000 views and 17,000 shares the last
time I posted it.
>> I post 7-second Reels. I post
7-to-15-second Reels. I stick to the
mini skirt rule. I don't really post
carousels, but if I do, they're square.
>> I post 4 by 5 carousels.
>> I post 3 by 4 carousels.
>> I only post trending audio reels.
>> I only post talking head reels.
>> I post both.
>> I post when I have the time to make one.
>> I create and post every single day.
>> I post every day, but I only create a
few times per week.
>> I tell people to click the link in my
bio.
>> I use DM automation.
>> I use both.
>> I liked this reel.
>> I saved this reel.
>> I shared this reel.
>> And I do want to note that that is the
least viewed reel and the least shared
reel of all of the posts that I've told
you about so far, and I think it makes
sense. That post isn't funny, it's not
relatable, it's not super authentic, it
doesn't have a super strong hook, and it
is quite educational. Now, it is the
entertainment factor that made up for it
and made that post still quite
share-worthy, but you can see how as
soon as I start to add in more
educational pieces, the share-worthiness
decreases. So, those essential
ingredients for what makes a post
share-worthy. With that being said,
let's talk about what share-worthy posts
actually look like besides the examples
I've shown you so far. Share-worthy
posts are often motivational or
inspirational content. These are quotes,
affirmations, reminders, Bible verses,
things like that that really make an
impact and make people stop and pause
and go, "Wow, that I needed to hear that
today." And one quick overarching tip
that doesn't just pertain to
motivational inspirational content, but
really any share-worthy post you make or
really any post you make period is that
value matters more than vanity. So, the
actual message that you're sharing, the
actual inspirational quote or whatever
that you're actually posting is so much
more important than how aesthetically
pleasing it is or what fonts you use or
what color background you use. And one
of my favorite examples of this is one
of our students, Meredith Van Ness, who
is a therapist with over 200,000
followers on Instagram, and she's
crushing it using our InstaClubHub
method, and you'll see her posts are
quite simple. Often times just a white
background with a plain black font on
top with some sort of motivational or
inspirational method. If you want to
learn more about the Insta Club Hub, I
will put the link down in the show notes
below to join our 2-week trial for just
$7 and get full access to the entire
club. But besides Meredith, here is one
of my most viral posts that I have
recently made that is very inspirational
and uses a Childish Gambino quote.
This post got over 35,000 shares and 5.2
million views the last time I posted it,
but the time before that it also got a
few million views as well. Another quick
tip that I wanted to mention is that all
of your share-worthy posts, like pretty
much anything that you post to your feed
on Instagram, should be related to your
niche. So sure, this is a Childish
Gambino quote, but it's a Childish
Gambino quote that very much applies and
makes sense to my followers who are
small business owners and brands who are
trying to grow on Instagram. I wouldn't,
for example, use a David Goggins quote
about running ultramarathons because my
followers aren't into that sort of
thing. Number two, share-worthy content
also looks like community-oriented posts
or what I used to call call to arms
posts. These are the kinds of posts that
kind of rally the community together,
and they say, "Hey, we're all in this
together. Let's all pitch in for this
good cause, or let's all spread the word
about this important thing, or let's
raise awareness for whatever." The most
viral example of this all time is also
one of the most viral trends in the
history of the internet that existed
long before TikTok and the Instagram
algorithm that we know today, and that
is the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge. The ALS
Ice Bucket Challenge went so viral not
just because it had a very easy to
understand and simple motive, and not
just because it was visually engaging to
watch people dump buckets of ice on
their head, but because an integral part
of that challenge was to tag three
people or to nominate three friends to
also post their own version of the ALS
Ice Bucket Challenge. And so these call
to arms style posts are the posts that
are often the hardest to come up with
and because of that they're often the
posts that you will post the least
frequently. You're not going to be
posting a call to arms, let's raise
awareness, let's raise funds post every
single day. But if you do one of these
maybe once a month or even a few times a
quarter, you can really hit it big
because when these posts hit, they catch
on like wildfire. Here's a recent
example of a call to arms reel that I
posted of myself just holding up a
cardboard sign with one of these public
service announcements on it and you can
definitely steal this idea. You can
steal any idea that I've shared with you
in this episode. Just write a public
service announcement or a call to arms
or some sort of rallying cry if you will
on a cardboard sign, hold it up in the
busy street and film a quick video of
yourself doing that, post that on
Instagram and that will be a very
share-worthy post. I posted this just a
week ago at the time of recording this
and it has already received over 3,000
shares and over 300,000 views. My
personal motto when it comes to money is
simple, slow and steady wins the race.
Small consistent investments generally
beat trying to time the market with big
moves and that's why I am so fired up to
introduce you to today's sponsor,
Wealthfront. Wealthfront helps you tune
out the noise and earn more on every
dollar with a high yield cash account
and sophisticated yet easy to use
investment products that keep your money
working for you so that you can focus on
what only you can control. And the
Wealthfront cash account offers you
access to a 4.30%
variable APY on your uninvested cash for
a limited time. It also has zero monthly
fees and cash categories that let you
easily bucket money into savings goals
within one cash account. That way all of
your money management is in one place
and Wealthfront has allowed me to give
you a special offer that isn't available
to the general public. You start with a
3.30%
base APY from program banks. New cash
account clients can get a build your
tribe exclusive 0.75%
APY boost for your first 3 months on up
to a $150,000
balance. Then, you can add another 0.25%
APY increase, no expiration date or
balance limit, just by enabling a $1,000
a month direct deposit and maintaining a
funded investment account, bringing the
total APY to an impressive 4.30%
Join the 1 million plus people who are
already building long-term wealth with
confidence. Start earning up to 4.30%
variable APY today by heading to
wealthfront.com/byt.
Terms and conditions apply. This has
been a paid testimonial from a current
client of Wealthfront, which creates a
conflict of interest. Client experiences
will vary. Wealthfront brokerage is not
a bank. The base APY is as of January
30th, 2026 and is subject to change. For
more information, please see the episode
description. Number three, share-worthy
content looks like relatable content and
specifically relatable humor. Usually,
these are memes or self-deprecating
humor or short skits that are funny and
make people laugh. And people love
sharing these kinds of posts because
number one, it says something about them
and number two, it makes them look funny
because they're like, "Hey, this was so
good. This showed up on my feed. I'm
going to show it to more people." And
they kind of get the credit for like
retelling the joke. This meme that I
posted about a year ago about saying
thank you to ChatGPT went absolutely
bonkers and ended up receiving 50,000
shares and over 8 million views. And
then this meme that I posted just about
2 months ago has already received 20,000
shares and over 2 million views. The
fourth kind of share-worthy content is
controversial content. Now, I am not
encouraging you to get canceled or to
say anything defamatory or start cussing
people out or anything like that. And I
do want to warn you that you need to
know yourself. You need to know how
thick your skin is. If you're someone
who really can't handle even just one
negative comment, then stay away from
controversial content. But if you're
someone who really feeds off that stuff,
or you've got a great head on your
shoulders, and you just don't care if
people troll and say mean things about
you on the internet, then maybe this
content is going to be more up your
alley. But, the bottom line with
controversial content is that I'm not
encouraging you to attack others. What I
am encouraging you to do is to post your
unpopular opinions, or to speak up about
the things that other people won't, or
to say that you disagree with whatever
the popular strategy, or the popular
trend, or whatever is popular right now.
Because when you disagree, you allow the
people who are also silently disagreeing
to amplify your message by sharing it.
It's a way that they can say like,
"Yeah, I believe in this. I agree."
without having to be so bold as to say
it themselves. And me myself, I am not a
very controversial person. I try to stay
away from all sorts of controversy and
all that negative energy online, but
still sometimes there are myths that I'm
going to bust, or there are unpopular
opinions, or there's strategies that are
maybe going viral, and I'm like, "Hey, I
don't think you should do that. I don't
think that's very smart." And so, by
posting about those things, it becomes
more share-worthy. One example of
controversial content that is quite easy
for me to post about is whenever there's
negative news regarding Instagram.
Whenever Instagram rolls out a new
feature that people are mad about, or
whenever Instagram makes a change that
upsets people, that is controversial
news. Now, I'm not the source of the
controversy, I'm just reporting on the
controversy, but that makes it
share-worthy. And we're going to come
back to newsworthy content in just a
second. But, this post right here got
over 60,000 shares and almost 3 million
views. And then this post got 36,000
shares and 2 million views. I told you
we'd get to it, and here we are, coming
right back. The fifth and final way that
share-worthy posts often look, or
present themselves, is timely content.
Now, timely content isn't just news. It
can be news. It can be, "Hey, there's
breaking news in your niche. There's
some big change. There's some big
headline story." and you're going to
report on that. But, it can also be you
adding your own commentary, or your own
opinion, or your own two cents on the
news. If there's something that everyone
is talking about, maybe you're not going
to be the first person to break the
news, but you can add your own two cents
or you can add your own opinion or
commentary that's different than what
everyone else is saying. And then the
final example of timely content is
trending content or content that is
going on in pop culture. For example, if
there's like a big show that everyone's
obsessed with on Netflix, if you take
that show or a sound bite from that show
or a meme from that show and relate it
back to your niche on Instagram, that is
very timely. If you make a post that is
relating to the seasons or the holidays,
that can be very timely as well. For
example, here's one of my most shared
posts of all time that was posted this
past October, right before Halloween,
and it got over 170,000
shares and from that amassed over 3
million views. It's relating to my
niche, but it's also relating to the
bigger sense of what's going on in the
world, which was that it was about to be
Halloween. And then this post, of
course, is just an example of breaking
the news and this post received 70,000
shares and 8.2 million views. And with
all of this being said, two big things
that a lot of people miss when it comes
to share-worthy content is that number
one, success leaves clues. So, if at the
end of this episode, you're swimming a
little bit and you're like, wait, what
do I even post now? What is going to be
share-worthy? How do I fit this into my
account? I want you to go back through
this episode and take screenshots or
write down any of the posts that I made
and recreate your own version fitting it
into your own niche. Success leaves
clues. So, study the most shared and the
most viral content in your niche to see
what is working for people who do what
you do. And also, share what is going
viral outside of your niche because then
you have a unique opportunity where you
can take, let's say, something that's
going viral in the fitness world and
make your own, let's say, baking content
that is kind of a similar format, but
it's going to be very share-worthy
because it's using a proven concept. And
then maybe the most no-brainer thing
that so so people miss is ask for the
share. Tell people to share your post.
Don't just make a share-worthy post and
then cross your fingers and pray to Adam
Mosseri and hope that people share and
then it goes viral. Tell people share
this post if you relate. [music] Send
this to a friend who needs to hear it.
Help spread this news. Tell people to
share and they will be more likely to do
so. Thank you so much for watching.
Don't forget to hit that subscribe
button and as always, happy networking.